# Concepts. The global variable

The `skog` package exposes one single variable.

```js
const log = require('skog')
```

Here you can read how to use that variable to:

- Log things
- Create child loggers

You can read also how to initialize and change the value of that single variable.

---

## Initialize the logger

By default, the global variable exposed by the package will log lines using the `console` object:

```js
const defaultLogger = {
  trace: (...args) => console.trace(...args),
  debug: (...args) => console.debug(...args),
  info: (...args) => console.info(...args),
  warn: (...args) => console.warn(...args),
  error: (...args) => console.error(...args),
  fatal: (...args) => console.error(...args)
}
```

When you make this call you are re-assigning a value of that variable

```js
require('skog/bunyan').createLogger({
  name: 'my application'
})
```

## Update the logger

You can actually change the value of the global variable manually with the `logger` attribute. The recommendation is to use it only when **initializing** the logger, specially if you are using a different logger library than bunyan. For example:

```js
log.logger.trace = function (...args) {
  console.trace('TRACE', ...args)
}
```

## Log things

You use that variable to log things. You have 6 methods to log things:

- `log.trace`
- `log.debug`
- `log.info`
- `log.warn`
- `log.error`
- `log.fatal`

What happens exactly when you call each function depends on what library are you using. For example, Bunyan prints a called `level` with numbers from `10` to `60` depending on the severity of the log.

## Create child loggers

You can use the function `log.child` to create something called "child loggers". Child loggers are loggers that print extra data. When calling `log.child` you pass both the "extra data" mentioned and a "callback". The callback defines where this extra data is considered

```js
log.info('Here we dont have any req_id')
log.child({ req_id: 0 }, async () => {
  log.info('Here we have the req_id')
})
```



## Continuation-style

Continuation-style is a way of passing variables to functions without actually passing them. Since this technique can confuse people (pass variables without passing them), it must be used in a very controlled way and in few scenarios. Logging is one of those valid use cases.

Let's see how more or less this works in Skog.

First, you declare a **global** `log` variable.

```js
const log = require('skog')
```

However, this variable might have different values. Which means that the variable has different behavior depending on the **run-time call-stack of where it is accessed**

Look at the following code:

```js
const log = require('skog')

function a () {
  log.info('Hello from A')
}

function b () {
  log.info('Hello from B')
  a()
}

log.info('Hello from outside')
a()
b()
```

This code will log:

```
Hello from outside
Hello from A
Hello from B
Hello from A
```

Let's write the **call-stack** of every log line, so the function that called the current function. This is something Skog tracks internally.

```
Hello from outside     (call-stack: global)
Hello from A           (call-stack: global -> a)
Hello from B           (call-stack: global -> b)
Hello from A           (call-stack: global -> b -> a)
```

As you can see the first `Hello from A` and the second one have different call-stacks.

When you call `skog.child` you are telling Skog to use a different logger from that point.

```js
skog.child({ req_id: 1 }, () => {
  // Here `log` have a different value
  log.info('Hello')
  // Same with the value of `log` when we call another function:
  b()
})
```
